Add Release Notes for v2.12.12 (#1267)
rancher/rancher-product-docs: versions/v2.12/modules/en/pages/release-notes/v2.12.12.adoc

= Release {release-version}
ifeval::["{build-type}" != "srfa"]
:page-languages: [en, zh]
endif::[]
:revdate: 2026-07-22
:page-revdate: {revdate}
:release-version: v2.12.12
:rn-component-version: v2.12
:previous-release-version: v2.12.11
:rn-istio: xref:observability/istio/istio.adoc
:rn-installation-requirements: xref:installation-and-upgrade/requirements/requirements.adoc
:rn-aggregation-layer-is-required: xref:api/extension-apiserver.adoc#_aggregation_layer_is_required

> :rn-disk-space: xref:rancher-admin/global-configuration/ui-server-side-pagination.adoc#_disk_space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:rn-ui-server-pagination: xref:rancher-admin/global-configuration/ui-server-side-pagination.adoc
:rn-ui-server-pagination-known-issues: xref:rancher-admin/global-configuration/ui-server-side-pagination.adoc#_known_limitations_of_ui_server_side_pagination
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks @LucasSaintarbor for catching, updated the xrefs in this [commit](https://github.com/rancher/rancher-product-docs/pull/1267/commits/81e364f7e4ad5370c947d74b8fc8eff2f26250d5). Also kept the above disk-space xref as it is used earlier in the file.

== Versions

=== Images

* rancher/rancher:{release-version}

=== Tools

* CLI - https://github.com/rancher/cli/releases/tag/{release-version}[{release-version}]

=== Kubernetes Versions for RKE2/K3s

* v1.33.13 (Default)
* v1.32.13
* v1.31.14

=== Rancher Helm Chart Versions

In Rancher v2.6.0 and later, in the *Apps & Marketplace* UI, many Rancher Helm charts are named with a major version that starts with *100*. This avoids simultaneous upstream changes and Rancher changes from causing conflicting version increments. This also complies with semantic versioning (SemVer), which is a requirement for Helm. You can see the upstream version number of a chart in the build metadata, for example: `100.0.0+up2.1.0`. See https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/32294[#32294].

== Previous Rancher Behavior Changes

=== Previous Rancher Behavior Changes - Rancher General

* *Rancher v2.12.0:*
** Kubernetes v1.30 is no longer supported. Before upgrading to Rancher v2.12.0, ensure all clusters are running Kubernetes v1.31 or later. See https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/49679[#49679].

> ** The feature flag `ui-sql-cache` (Server-Side Pagination) is now enabled by default in Rancher. Please refer to the xef:rancher-admin/global-configuration/ui-server-side-pagination.html[UI Server-Side Pagination] document for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The feature flag `ui-sql-cache` (Server-Side Pagination) is now enabled by default in Rancher. Please refer to the {rn-ui-server-pagination}[UI Server-Side Pagination] document for more information.
```

+
This cache, an internal SQLite database, is stored within the container's filesystem. This affects the nodes running the Rancher server pods (rancher in the cattle-system namespace on the local cluster) and the nodes running the Rancher agent pods (cattle-cluster-agent in the cattle-system namespace on all downstream clusters).
The amount of disk space required is dynamic and depends on the quantity and size of Kubernetes resources visualized in the UI. As a guideline, the cache may consume approximately twice the size of the raw Kubernetes objects it stores. For instance, internal tests showed that caching 5000 ConfigMaps, totaling 50 MB, consumed 81 MB of disk space. For a conservative, high-level estimate, you can plan for the available disk space on each relevant node to be at least twice the size of your etcd snapshot. For most production environments, ensuring a few extra gigabytes of storage are available on the relevant nodes is a safe starting point.
+
It is crucial that you review the available disk space on your nodes and plan accordingly before upgrading to this version to avoid potential disk pressure and pod eviction issues.
+

> This update has introduced limitations which are outlined in the xref:rancher-admin/global-configuration/ui-server-side-pagination.adoc#_known_limitations_of_ui_server_side_pagination[UI Server Side Pagination documentation]. See https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/48691[#48691] and https://github.com/rancher/dashboard/issues/12975[#12975] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This update has introduced limitations which are outlined in the {rn-ui-server-pagination-known-issues}[UI Server Side Pagination documentation]. See https://github.com/rancher/rancher/issues/48691[#48691] and https://github.com/rancher/dashboard/issues/12975[#12975] for more information.
```
